[DOCS-4939] Add a quickstart for DD agent->OPW configuration. (#17042)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/observability_pipelines/quickstart/_index.md

---

> title: Quickstart

Reviewer: Is the difference between the Quickstart and Installation doc that the Quickstart is for Datadog users?

Author: Yes. The Installation doc is very generic and doesn't really leave the user with a starting configuration that will do what they want.

kind: Documentation
aliases:
    - /observability_pipelines/quickstart/
further_reading:

>   - link: /observability_pipelines/production_deployment_overview/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - link: "/observability_pipelines/production_deployment_overview/"
```

>     tag: Documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    tag: "Documentation"
```

>     text: Production deployment docs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    text: "Production deployment overview for the Observability Pipelines Worker"
```

>   - link: https://dtdg.co/d22op

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - link: "https://dtdg.co/d22op"
```

>     tag: Practical

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    tag: "Learning Center"
```

    text: Take a workshop on Building Observability Pipelines
---

**Welcome!**

This guide will run you through a simple deployment of Observability Pipelines, with the aim of getting you running as quickly as possible, with
our default recommended settings.

## Assumptions
* You are a current Datadog customer who wishes to utilize Observability Pipelines for cost control, compliance, or data insights.

> * Your services (or at the least, OP) are deployed to a Kubernetes cluster in EKS, AKS, or GKE.

Reviewer: I'm a bit confused here, should the user already have the OPW installed? Isn't this guide to walk them through installing the OPW? Should we just say "your services are deployed..."?

> * Your services (or at the least, OP) are deployed to a Kubernetes cluster in EKS, AKS, or GKE.

Author: Yes, I think eliminating the OPW reference there is the best way to go, you're right.

You will also need capacity on your Kubernetes nodes to run the Worker, **which at minimum will require 2 nodes with 1 CPU and 512MB RAM available.** A recommended way to do this is to create a separate node pool for the workers, which is also the recommended configuration for production deployments.

## Provider-Specific Requirements
{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "AWS EKS" %}}
* **You will need the [AWS Load Balancer controller](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/aws-load-balancer-controller.html).** If you have made your EKS cluster through the UI, then you likely already have this installed.
* **We recommend an EKS >= 1.16.**
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Azure AKS" %}}
*No special notes are needed for Azure.*
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Google GKE" %}}
*No special notes are needed for GKE.*
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Preparing your Environment
**Our eventual goal for this quickstart guide looks like the following:**
{{< img src="/observability_pipelines/quickstart/dd-pipeline.png" alt="A diagram of a couple of workload clusters pointing their data through OP." >}}

Most customers have a common tools/security cluster for their environments, which all other clusters are connected to.

> This is a natural spot to deploy OP, as connectivity issues have already been worked out. **Other, more complex setups will be covered in other guides.**

Author: Yes, I think that's wise.

## Installing OP
### Starting Configuration
The following Helm configurations are pre-assembled for the major cloud providers that we support.
{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "AWS EKS" %}}
[Helm Chart](/resources/yaml/observability_pipelines/quickstart/aws_eks.yaml)
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Azure AKS" %}}
[Helm Chart](/resources/yaml/observability_pipelines/quickstart/azure_aks.yaml)
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Google GKE" %}}
[Helm Chart](/resources/yaml/observability_pipelines/quickstart/google_gke.yaml)
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> After downloading the correct Helm chart for your provider, you should replace the `datadog.apiKey` and `datadog.configKey` values to match your pipeline. Then you can install it into your cluster with the following commands:

Author: Folks often end up needing to re-`install` the chart to fix certain errors- this is really just me guarding against them forgetting to re-enter the API key.

> After downloading the correct Helm chart for your provider, you should replace the `datadog.apiKey` and `datadog.configKey` values to match your pipeline. Then you can install it into your cluster with the following commands:

Reviewer 2: Fair, whichever has worked the best for you in practice. In the chart's README I used the `--set` flags, following the Datadog Agent chart's example.

and they will properly react to autoscaling events that the default Helm setup is configured for. All these load balancers are Internal-facing,
so they will only be accessible inside of your network.

You will enter the load balancer URL given to you by Helm when it comes time to configure the Datadog Agent.

#### Cross-AZ Load Balancing
The provided Helm configurations do their best to simplify load balancing, but you must take into consideration the potential price implications of cross-AZ traffic. **Wherever possible, the samples try to avoid creating situations where multiple cross-AZ hops can happen, preferring performance, simplicity, and cost optimizations at the potential expense of fault tolerance.** Links will be provided to the cloud provider info pages for more information on settings you can use to change that tradeoff however you would like for your own deployments.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "AWS EKS" %}}
On AWS, we use NLBs provisioned by the [AWS Load Balancer Controller](https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/aws-load-balancer-controller/v2.4/). It allows
much more flexibility and correctness than the in-tree controller that AWS provides.

> The sample configurations do not enable the "cross-zone load balancing" feature available in this controller; to change this, adding the following annotation to the `service` block should suffice:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The sample configurations do not enable the "cross-zone load balancing" feature available in this controller; to change this, adding the following annotation to the `service.annotations` object should suffice:
```

```

>   service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-attributes: load_balancing.cross_zone.enabled=true

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    service.beta.kubernetes.io/aws-load-balancer-attributes: load_balancing.cross_zone.enabled=true
```

If you're trying to indent to where the `values.yaml` would have it I think this is correct. Otherwise maybe just left aligned?

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Linking the Agent and the Worker
To send logs and metrics to the Observability Pipelines Worker, update your agent configuration with the following:

```yaml
vector:
  logs.enabled: true
  # Adjust protocol to https if TLS/SSL is enabled on the Observability Pipelines Worker
  logs.url: "http://<OPW_HOST>:8282"
  metrics.enabled: true
  # Adjust protocol to https if TLS/SSL is enabled on the Observability Pipelines Worker
  metrics.url: "http://<OPW_HOST>:8282"

```

`OPW_HOST` will be the `EXTERNAL-IP` of the load balancer you set up earlier, which you can retrieve by running the following command:

```
$ kubectl get svc opw-observability-pipelines-worker
```

At this point, your observability data should be flowing through the OP Worker, and is now available for whatever processing you wish to do to it. In the next section, we'll cover both what processing we include by default, as well as additional options that are available to you.

## Working with Data

> The Helm charts provided above give some example processing steps both to demonstrate the power of OP's tools, and to ensure that data sent to Datadog is in a correct format. We'll go over these inclusions below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Helm chart provided above give some example processing steps both to demonstrate the power of OP's tools, and to ensure that data sent to Datadog is in a correct format. We'll go over these inclusions below.
```

### Processing Logs
The provided logs pipeline has a couple of distinct purposes:

- **Tag logs coming through the OP Worker.** This will help with determining what traffic still needs to be shifted over to the Worker, as you update your clusters. These tags will also let you see how logs are being routed through the load balancer, in case of imbalances.

> - **Correct the status of logs coming through the Worker.** Due to a quirk in how the Datadog Agent collects logs from containers, the provided `.status` attribute does not properly reflect the true level of the message. We remove this in order to prevent some issues with parsing rules in the backend that receives logs from the Worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Correct the status of logs coming through the Worker.** Due to how the Datadog Agent collects logs from containers, the provided `.status` attribute does not properly reflect the actual level of the message. We remove this to prevent issues with parsing rules in the backend, where logs are received from the Worker.
```

In particular, the following steps in the pipeline are worth calling out:
- `logs_parse_ddtags`

> - `logs_finish_ddtags`

Reviewer: I'm assuming they are tags added to the logs? What do these tags mean?

Reviewer 2: These would be the names of components configured, specifically two `remap` components.

> Internally, the Datadog Agent represents log tags as a CSV in a single string. In order to effectively manipulate these tags, we must parse them, perform our modifications, and then re-encode them before they are sent off to the ingest endpoint. These steps are written to automatically perform those actions for you. **Any modifications you make to the pipeline, especially for manipulating tags, should be sandwiched between these two steps.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Internally, the Datadog Agent represents log tags as a CSV in a single string. To effectively manipulate these tags, they must be parsed, modified , and then re-encoded before they are sent to the ingest endpoint. These steps are written to automatically perform those actions for you. Any modifications you make to the pipeline, especially for manipulating tags, should be in between these two steps.
```

Reviewer: In between which two steps?

Author: In between the `logs_parse_ddtags` and `logs_finish_ddtags` steps.

> ### Processing Metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Processing metrics
```

> The provided metrics pipeline is thankfully much simpler, as it does not require additional parsing/re-encoding steps. Similar to the logs pipeline, it will tag incoming metrics for traffic accounting purposes. **Due to the additional cardinality, this may have cost implications for custom metrics. Integration metrics will behave, and be charged, as normal.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The provided metrics pipeline does not require additional parsing and re-encoding steps. Similar to the logs pipeline, it tags incoming metrics for traffic accounting purposes. Due to the additional cardinality, this may have cost implications for custom metrics.
```

> ## Further Reading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Further reading
```

> At this point, your environment is configured for Observability Pipelines, and data should be flowing through it. Further configuration is likely required for your specific use case(s), but the tools provided here should help you build whatever you need.

Reviewer: Could you move this above the Further reading header?

> At this point, your environment is configured for Observability Pipelines, and data should be flowing through it. Further configuration is likely required for your specific use case(s), but the tools provided here should help you build whatever you need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, your environment is configured for Observability Pipelines with data flowing through it. Further configuration is likely required for your specific use case(s), but the tools provided give you a starting point for it.
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "AWS EKS" %}}
For AWS, Datadog recommends using the `io2` EBS drive family. Alternatively, the `gp3` drives can be used as well.
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Azure AKS" %}}
For Azure AKS, Datadog recommends using the `default` (also known as `managed-csi`) disks.
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Google GKE" %}}
For Google GKE, Datadog recommends using the `premium-rwo` drive class, because that is backed by SSDs. The HDD-backed class, `standard-rwo`, likely does not provide enough write performance for the buffers to be useful.
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Connect the Agent and the Worker
To send logs and metrics to the Observability Pipelines Worker, update your agent configuration with the following:

```yaml

> vector:

Reviewer 3: Noting, this needs to change to `observability_pipelines_worker`. Pierre Prognant was the engineer that implemented this and he is no longer with us. I wish it was as simple as a rename, but I don't think it is based on [this commit](https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/commit/48752386c6ab041b70f1ca8c7ffeec5586595edc).

  logs.url: "http://<OPW_HOST>:8282"
  metrics.enabled: true
  # Adjust protocol to https if TLS/SSL is enabled on the Observability Pipelines Worker
  metrics.url: "http://<OPW_HOST>:8282"

```

`OPW_HOST` is the `EXTERNAL-IP` of the load balancer you set up earlier. You can retrieve it by running the following command:

```
$ kubectl get svc opw-observability-pipelines-worker
```

At this point, your observability data should be flowing through the OP Worker, and is available for any data processing you want to do. The next section goes through what processing is included by default, as well as additional options that are available.

## Working with data
The Helm chart provided above have example processing steps that demonstrate Observability Pipelines tools and ensure that data sent to Datadog is in the correct format. 

### Processing logs
The provided logs pipeline does the following:

- **Tag logs coming through the Observability Pipelines Worker.** This helps determine what traffic still needs to be shifted over to the Worker as you update your clusters. These tags also show you how logs are being routed through the load balancer, in case there are imbalances.

> - **Correct the status of logs coming through the Worker.** Due to how the Datadog Agent collects logs from containers, the provided `.status` attribute does not properly reflect the actual level of the message. We remove this to prevent issues with parsing rules in the backend, where logs are received from the Worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Correct the status of logs coming through the Worker.** Due to how the Datadog Agent collects logs from containers, the provided `.status` attribute does not properly reflect the actual level of the message. It is removed to prevent issues with parsing rules in the backend, where logs are received from the Worker.
```

> In particular, the following steps in the pipeline are worth calling out:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following are two important components in the example configuration:
```

> - `logs_parse_ddtags`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `logs_parse_ddtags`: Parses the tags that are stored in a string into structured data. 
```

> - `logs_finish_ddtags`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `logs_finish_ddtags`: Re-encodes the tags so that it is in the format as how the Datadog Agent would send it.
```
